Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we're going to provide a solution to the challenge from the previous lecture which was
implementing the momento design pattern.
It's gonna be a simple application with simple state data and saved restore points so we can do multiple
save points.
We're gonna call this application the momento solution
as far as our previous ones have been.
The first thing we're gonna do is we're gonna create a memento.
Now normally or last time I should say the momento was an entire class.
It does not have to be it's a little more restrictive when it is a memento CLASS BUT IT DOESN'T NEED
TO BE THIS IS GONNA DUPLICATE the state from the originator.
And the only state data in the originator is gonna be a private String state.
Again this is a generic example.
And so the constructor is gonna take and set that state so public momento string state.
And it's just gonna say this dot state equals state and then we're going to have a get method to retrieve
that state.
So get state
return state very simple momento class.
Our next step would be to create their originator class.
So now we're gonna say new Java class and that's gonna be our originator.
This is also a public class and it's gonna mimic has to have the same state as the momento or else it
wouldn't work.
So we just have state.
We're gonna have a set and a guest state for the state common encapsulation.
Right.
Private member variables public and sets.
And then we want to have a safe state to mental.
And when we same state to the mentor we just create a new mental object.
So this method name is gonna be safe state to momento to momento sorry and we're gonna say return new
momento with the State of the current object how the originator.
And then we're gonna get the state from the mental as well and so we'll create a method called get state
from a mental well you pass in the memento and you get the state in the restore.
This is really a restore method as well.
We also have to create the caretaker class it's say new I'm going to say caretaker and remember this
is gonna control an access to mental.
It has limited access it really just passes around him a mental the originator has full access.
This is gonna have a list of store points.
So we have to create a list there's a private list that's gonna be momento objects.
It's gonna be our mental list
and we're gonna instantiate that class loading time so we're just gonna make it an array list.
And again it contains all mental like that we're gonna have an add method which will add to the list
and we're gonna have a get method which will get from the list so we can restore previous states.
So our add method just takes Memento and adds it to the list our get method is gonna take an index so
that we can retrieve a certain state a certain store point.
So it just calls get on the list for the index passed in.
Last thing we need to do is create our client.
So now we're gonna say new job class client and this is gonna have a main method and we'll have to test
the mettle on the caretakers by saving multiple states and then trying to restore them.
So public static void main String args.
And we're gonna need to create an originator.
We'll just call this originator and we'll see a new originator.
We're gonna create a caretaker.
We'll call this caretaker and say new caretaker.
And what we're gonna do is we're gonna start setting states when we set the states new mementos are
gonna be created.
So we're just gonna basically set a couple states and then we're gonna add those states to be saved.
So those are store points so we're gonna set a state for state number one we're gonna set a state for
state number two and then we're gonna save state number two because we're only saving at periodic times.
We're not going to save every single state though the way we set state state number two is we say caretaker
not add added to the list and then we get the originator safe we get the originator safe state to memento.
Right.
So if we look at the originator this just created a new Memento and we save it we could write some more
states and save some more every save points.
We'll actually have a state three and a state four that will save it as well.
So here again we have we're setting a new state.
We're gonna save that to our caretaker using the momento.
And we're also going to set a state for but we're not going to save it.
So now we want to print out our current state the last thing we can do is we can start restoring.
So we're first going to restore our first save state point.
We can do that by getting the state from a month from the mental calling that method on the originator
and passing in the first state.
Then we can display that first safe state.
We can do it again for another saved state save state one and restore that state as well.
Something like that.
So when we call get state from a mental right.
What we're doing is we're restoring the state of the originator.
So we just need to make sure our names are correct.
And then this demonstrates how we can save and restore states using a momento if we compile this and
run it you'll see the different restore points being set back after we've retrieve them.
Let's go ahead and run our client and we'll see the current state is going to be state number four.
We didn't restore anything yet but we did save a couple of states.
We saved state 2 and state 3.
And so now we're going to actually restore our state to the first stage state which is state 2 and we
say well we've changed our mind we're not going to restore it to state 1 and that state number three.
So this is a governmental solution to our challenge.
If you have any questions please let me know.
Otherwise thank you.